Rewrite Z-Wave Adding and Removing Devices docs (#15535)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_docs/z-wave/adding.markdown

description: "How to add and remove Z-Wave devices."
---

## Adding Devices

To add a [Z-Wave device](/docs/z-wave/devices/):

1. Go to the [Z-Wave control panel](/docs/z-wave/control-panel/).
2. Click **Add Node** in the *Z-Wave Network Management* card, or **Add Node Secure** for secure devices like locks. This puts your [Z-Wave controller](/docs/z-wave/controllers/) in "inclusion" mode.

> 3. Activate your device by following the instructions provided with it. Usually this involves pressing a button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Activate your device by following the instructions provided with it. Usually, this involves pressing a button.
```

Author: ok

4. Make sure the device is in its final location, then click **Heal Network**. This is optional but helps optimize network speed.

When you add a device, it may initially appear without a specific entity ID (e.g., `zwave.__`) or other identifying information. *Heal Network* should speed the process of populating this information. You *might* need to restart Home Assistant for the entity ID to appear.

<div class='note warning'>

> Some Z-Wave USB sticks have a physical "inclusion" button to add devices; <b>don't use it</b>. Likewise, don't add devices directly through other tools like <a href="https://github.com/OpenZWave/open-zwave-control-panel">OpenZWave control panel</a>. Many devices only send capabilities information at the time you add them, so if you add them outside of Home Assistant this information will be missing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Some Z-Wave USB sticks have a physical "inclusion" button to add devices; **don't use it**. Likewise, don't add devices directly through other tools like [OpenZWave control panel](https://github.com/OpenZWave/open-zwave-control-panel). Many devices only send capabilities information when you add them, so if you add them outside of Home Assistant, this information will be missing.

```

Author: for reasons that aren't very clear to me, this doesn't work. `bundle exec rake preview` and then previewing the page shows the markdown isn't processed:

<img width="740" alt="Screen Shot 2020-11-06 at 4 20 14 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/97944/98420138-224ce480-204c-11eb-8bc0-2414e4174d39.png">

Reviewer: I've added new lines. Please read our developer documentation.

https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/documenting/create-page#html

Author: d'oh, sorry for not reading the manual. appreciate the patience.

</div>

<div class='note warning'>
Secure devices require additional bandwidth; too many secure devices can slow down your Z-Wave network. We recommend only using secure inclusion for devices that require it, like locks or garage door openers.
</div>

## Removing Devices

To remove a [Z-Wave device](/docs/z-wave/devices/):

1. Go to the [Z-Wave control panel](/docs/z-wave/control-panel/).
2. Click **Remove Node** in the *Z-Wave Network Management* card. This puts your [Z-Wave controller](/docs/z-wave/controllers/) in "exclusion" mode.

> 3. Activate your device by following the instructions provided with it. Usually this involves pressing a button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Activate your device by following the instructions provided with it. Usually, this involves pressing a button.
```

Author: done

### Already Added

If your device was previously added to another controller but not removed from it, **you must remove it before adding it to Home Assistant**.

1. **Remove the device from the old controller**, if possible. If your device was added to a different system (SmartThings, Wink, etc.) follow that system's instructions to remove the device. Then try adding the device to Home Assistant again.
2. If you can't remove it from the old controller, **try removing the device using Home Assistant**. Follow the instructions in [Removing Devices](#removing-devices); even though it hasn't been added to Home Assistant yet, most Z-Wave devices will respond to exclusion mode from *any* controller. Then try adding the device to Home Assistant again. (Secure devices with a theft protection feature may not allow this.)
3. If removing the device doesn't help, **try a factory reset** as a last resort. Check your device's manual for instructions.

### Range Issues

Normally you can add and remove devices as long as they are within range of any Z-Wave Plus device in your network, using a feature called [network-wide inclusion](https://z-wavealliance.org/z-wave_plus_certification/).

> If you are using classic Z-Wave devices, your device may need to be within range of your [controller](/docs/z-wave/controllers/) to be added or removed. If you cannot move the device (e.g. wall switches), you can try temporarily relocating your controller to be near your device.

Reviewer 2: I'd change "classic Z-Wave devices" to "older non-ZWave Plus model devices"

Author: That's a good suggestion! On it.

> If you are using older non-Z-Wave Plus devices, your device may need to be within range of your [controller](/docs/z-wave/controllers/) to be added or removed. If you cannot move the device (e.g. wall switches), you can try temporarily relocating your controller to be near your device. See the [Z-Wave Alliance documentation on Z-Wave Plus](https://z-wavealliance.org/z-wave_plus_certification/) for more information on how to determine if your devices support Z-Wave Plus.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using older non-Z-Wave Plus devices, your device may need to be within the range of your [controller](/docs/z-wave/controllers/) to be added or removed. If you cannot move the device (e.g., wall switches), you can try temporarily relocating your controller to be near your device. See the [Z-Wave Alliance documentation on Z-Wave Plus](https://z-wavealliance.org/z-wave_plus_certification/) for more information on how to determine if your devices support Z-Wave Plus.
```

### Forcibly Removing Devices

> You can use the **Remove Failed Node** button to remove a device that has failed (e.g. because it is broken). In rare cases, you may want to remove a device that has *not* failed. This is not recommended, but can help in cases where a device has not been recognized as failed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the **Remove Failed Node** button to remove a failed device (e.g., because it is broken). In rare cases, you may want to remove a device that has *not* failed. This is not recommended but can help when a device has not been recognized as failed.
```

Author: nice edits, done 👍

    ```

5. Click **Set State**
6. Go to the [Z-Wave control panel](/docs/z-wave/control-panel/)
7. Click **Remove Failed Node** in the *Z-Wave Node Management* card
8. The device will now be removed, but that won't show until you restart Home Assistant

> ## Network Key

Reviewer: The network key section is already described on the installation page. Let's remove it from here (as it is a duplicate).

Author: done.
